# Craigslist Analysis
2023-09-26
by [Dalton Virtue](https://github.com/scvirtued)

## Introduction
When viewing the Craigslist advertising service website, it is a minimalist feat of design. The consistent choice for the layout, colours, and typography is what makes the website perfect for its target demographic - anyone. Its “straight to the point” implications make it an easily understandable service for people to use and get the most out of. The UI/UX design is cleverly chosen to model that of a list - being points which are used to divide each category, or in tech terms the “hyperlinks” of the entire service.

## Evaluation of the use cases and potential target audience
The potential target audience for the service is any person of any age who hopes to buy or sell items online. The website makes this idea clear to the user by not sticking to a specific theme. There are multiple categories for users to buy, sell, offer a service, or advertise which makes it universally used by anyone for almost anything. The use cases for the service are limitless from a business standpoint due to the amount of categories you can use the service for.

## Evaluation of overall design
The layout decision for the non-desktop view of the service also follows through with its minimalist design. The bar reserved for posting and viewing a user’s account remains consistent, whereas the middle column cascades based on each of the categories (community, housing, jobs, etc.). It is important to note that in the mobile version, content that might not be as relevant such as the craigslist FAQ, terms of use, or other information is not front and centre. This decision was likely influenced by attempting to assure the contents viewed on phone is not too crowded.
Another aspect to note is the simplicity of posting an ad. The form for submission consists of radio buttons, check boxes, and text boxes that explain exactly what is needed to specify in short sentences, with green and red colours to indicate what still needs to be filled in. This simple, yet sophisticated design choice is simple enough for all types of users to get behind. Navigation is also important to note, as clicking through different categories leads to exactly what is needed. Big images, text, review score of the seller, and the price tag make any page a user navigates to look like a magazine. This design choice is perfect because it is recognizable to users who would visualise what buying something online is like.

## Evaluation of the UI/UX
Starting from the home page, it is clear that the service has a very specific theme, taking minimalism to a new level. The default, blue hyperlink text was chosen for almost every clickable object that is shown to the user. Not to mention the logo chosen for the service (the peace sign) is the default ‘visited’ hyperlink text colour. The colour choice for these elements is user-friendly in the sense that visitors, who may not be tech savvy can visit the service and be very familiar with what blue text means. Colour was also used cleverly when distinguishing between different objects on the page. For example, headers have a light grey background tint that is just visible enough for users to see clearly. The decision of using the bare minimum colours on a service is a good design choice because it makes the content easier to read through and not be tied to a specific chromatic theme.
Beyond the colour choices, the application also shows consistency with the typography choices. Every textual element on the page is lowercase letters. This minimalist decision makes the webpage easier to read through and cleaner to look at. In terms of layout, the web version divides distinct elements into columns based on a theme. The left column contains a search feature and craigslist service information, the middle column contains the categories for items to be sold, and the right column contains nearby locations of craigslist services as links. The choice of these columns and their content is clearly distinguishable and simple for users to sift through.

## Conclusion
To conclude, I strongly believe that Craigslist’s UI/UX design choices are phenomenal. The power behind simplicity is perfectly demonstrated with this service and is such an important part of why it is so successful and has been for many years. The most important elements to achieve these goals are the layout, typography, and colour choice, with layout being the absolute most important feature. This is because the layout provides user convenience in terms of navigation and comprehension of the service. The design is likely heavily influenced by minimalist themes since every aspect of the service uses lots of whitespace and fewest amount of words. The website standing on its own works perfectly for what it is trying to achieve.
